Essay Tagging Exercise
Wednesday, October 23, 2019


Overview

For this exercise you are to take the contents of this file and tag it with proper HTML tags. The end result should be a properly formatted page that includes headers, paragraphs, lists, and more.

Your first step should be to create a new file in this directory, called something like essayExercise.html. Then setup a standard html page with the html, head, and body tags. If you are using Sublime text, you can simply type "html" and press "tab" and it will create it for you.

Once you have your blank html page created, copy and paste the contents of this file in between the "body" tags. You can now open your file in the browser by double-clicking it in finder. You should see a pretty ugly, unformatted page, but we are going to change that through the use of HTML tags.


Tags

There are a variety of tags that can be used. Below is a list of ones that you will likely need for this assignment, and a description of what they are for.

h1: your most important header. For example this would wrap the title of the essay
h2: your next most important header. This would be good for wrapping sub-sections throughout the essay
h3: a tertiary header. This could be a good idea to put around things such as the date or the author name
p: a paragraph tag. Use this to wrap anything that would be considered a paragraph
ul: an unordered list. Use this to wrap anything that should be a bullet point list
li: a list item. Within a ul tag you should have a series of li tags to denote each bullet point
strong: bold text
a: an anchor tag. This is what would be used to create links to other pages using the href attribute


Details

Make sure that each paragraph and header is properly tagged. The above list of tag types should be an unordered list with a series of list items inside of it for each tag mentioned.

In addition to tagging each of the list items properly, the tag names at the beginning of each one should all be bold.

Finally, you should make this url be an actual link using an "a" tag: https://www.w3schools.com/tags/tag_a.asp

Go to that url to see how to properly format a link with its href attribute.

At any point along the way you can save this file and refresh the page in your browser. It will show the progress you have made thus far.


Questions?

If you have any questions don't hesitate to call me over. The answer is also included in the folder called "answer", but you should try to complete this as best you can using other resources first.
